---
layout: page
permalink: /research/
---
#### Job Market Paper

1. **Credit Constraints and the Valuation of Local Public Amenities** - I demonstrate that credit constraints may bias price-based (cf. rent-based) hedonic valuations of local public amenities. To measure this bias, I design a simple framework applying the logic of hedonic regression to mortgage choice. I find that household WTP for $1 of credit at the time of home purchase has mean $\sim$$0.25 and standard deviation $\sim$$0.50. Assuming zero correlation between households' marginal WTP for amenities and credit, this implies that existing estimates of local amenities are biased downward by 25%. To better account for potential correlations in borrower heterogeneity, I propose to refine the analysis in the discrete choice setting.

#### Working Papers

1. **Mortgage Lending Limits and Housing Demand: Evidence from Bunching in FHA Borrowing** - I adapt the econometric bunching framework to measure the loan-to-value limit elasticity of housing demand among borrowers of FHA loans from 2018 to 2019. Compared to the existing literature, my approach to identification better disentangles beliefs from credit constraints as determinants of housing demand. I find evidence that the loan-to-value limit elasticity of intensive housing demand is statistically significant but economically small, at 1.4-2.5\text{\textpertenthousand}. I find further evidence that such borrowing limits matter less for housing demand of households with higher income. This evidence suggests that the contribution of housing demand from pre-existing homeowners to the rise in house prices during the 2000s depended heavily on optimistic housing return expectations.
2. **Housing Wealth Management at Retirement** - This paper estimates the effect of retirement on the liquidation of housing assets. I use programmatic Social Security eligibility thresholds to instrument for retirement and find that retirement makes a household $\sim$12\% more likely to issue any new mortgage debt and $\sim$3\% more likely to extract equity from a home within the following two years. Retirement-induced housing wealth liquidation increases liquid balances to a greater extent than does ordinary housing wealth liquidation; this evidence is consistent with retirement-induced refinancing being a pro-active planning decision rather than a response to adverse expense shocks. Evidence on specific household motives for liquidating housing wealth is mixed.

#### Former Research

1. **Decision-Making by Precedent and the Founding of American Honda (1949-1972)** - American Honda was founded in 1959 as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Honda Motor Company to facilitate sales and distribution in the United States. The details of American Honda’s early history have long served as evidence in debates among scholars and practitioners about the managerial determinants of the subsidiary’s success. In particular, it is debated whether American Honda operated according to a deliberate or emergent strategy, i.e. whether or not strategic decisions made in the States conformed to the intentions of upper management. This paper presents evidence that Kihachiro Kawashima, President of American Honda from 1959 to 1965, made important decisions according to precedent set by his boss and mentor, Honda’s chief strategist, Takeo Fujisawa. It presents further evidence that these decisions may have contributed to the recovery of American Honda from its sales crisis during the late 1960s and its subsequent sales growth. Addressing ourselves to concepts in the strategy process literature, we argue that strategy realized by the appeal of subordinates to the historical precedent of their superiors defies categorization as either deliberate or emergent. We propose and define an alternative category, ‘subjunctive strategy’.

